Good morning, good afternoon, good
evening, wherever you are.
Welcome to the Blueprint Open. My name
is Anne-Marie Bayne. Today is Monday,
June the 1st. We're taking a look at the
E-mini S&P. It's trending upward
very nicely. We're in clear breakout.
Uh we had a wick that came in. I don't
really see it very well in my other
flows, but we had a wick that came in
that pulled us back.
And now
we are in a slightly upward trending,
well, it's actually pretty solid because
the 50 is upward, the 20 simple moving
average is upward, the anchored VWAP is
well below us at
75.94.
And our pivot [music] is also well below
us at 75.91. If per happenstance we
break 76.07,
we've got a very likely action of
pulling back into these high volume
areas. As it sits right now, we look
pretty good, but the overnight inventory
is very long.
They've been long the entire morning.
Trend is up.
Momentum is up on these shorter time
frames. Notice, however,
momentum continues to drift down as we
lift. So, what does this tell us? This
tells us that we are eventually going to
reach a plateau, and that plateau is
going to pull us back into prior support
zones.
I don't know where those are currently,
but we'll fret about them as they get
closer. Key areas to look at again are
the pivot 76
75.91, and then
75.84.
We've got a big volume area event here
in terms of demand. We're sitting in a
supply zone. We've been very compacted,
but overnight inventory is long. This
tells us that
our dips could come in the morning.
We've had very erratic mornings of late.
They've been a bit savage, either
trending very shortly up and then giving
us solid pullbacks into our pivot zones
and then returning to the upside.
Friday was a bit sideways like that as
well, but dips are buys. The line in the
sand for the very active upward trending
long is this 7607. So, if we lose 7607,
coming down into 75-98
and 75-83
becomes much more likely, and then
there's another dip event there. Could
you trade countertrend short? Well, yes,
but you'd need to go to a 5-minute and
then watch for all of your moving
averages.
Whoopsie.
to converge.
Okay?
You'd want to watch those to have them
converge. I need to lock this thing.
And so far, it's just telling us dips
are buys. Right there at the 7607 is the
200 simple moving average on the
5-minute. Let's go to the NQ.
That's so interesting that wick
disappeared.
Aberrant.
All right, clearly trending up. Very
strong trend. Same sort of business.
Mean reversion
close to the 20 simple moving average,
does not quite get there, starts
rotating up but with less strength. Now,
that strength could change and it could
continue to the upside.
We are coming into a relatively bullish
portion of
the NQ,
but our seasonality levels have shifted
somewhat and so um
we've got sort of a phase shift and I'm
trying to figure out what that phase
shift really means, but we'll be we'll
know in just a couple of days and I will
tell you. So, what are we seeing? Same
sort of things. Dips or pullbacks. Now,
let me lock this thing before
it goes wonky on me with all the
clicking.
All right, so
my candle of note is
this look at this very strange price
action right here.
Dip down, big sell
into the end of Friday and then this
savage bounce
all the way up.
So, not quite sure what the storyboard
there is, but what we do notice is the
Fibonacci that is governing the Globex
region [music] is
fairly clean. So, we will look at that
for our formations. Notice how well it
holds the top at
30,591.
So, we're going to walk these up today
if that is the case and that's going to
give us
30,629,
30,665,
30,000
700 and these are just going up in
small clips because the Globex candle
has been so low. But, where is the
Everybody's calling these Maginot lines.
We'll call it the Rubicon so we won't
want to you know, it's not quite the
Rubicon because it's not that
disastrous, but our line in the sand for
clean support action, in my mind,
appears to be
30,000
400.
If we lose 30,400, we're going to fill
in this gap formation,
and
you know, we'll see what happens there.
Frankly,
this seems very
uh
Oops, wrong direction.
Wow, do you see that? I'm seeing this
all over the place.
I am. I'm seeing this strange
business of
these wicks coming
to and fro.
Good grief, operator error, folks.
All right. So, we have this,
and what I want to do is clone it,
and then just duplicate.
Right, we're going to roll it down a
little bit,
so we can see where these edges are.
Yep.
All right.
So, we can clearly see there's something
going on up here. This is the second one
I've seen, and it's disappeared
afterwards, so
I have no idea what's going on there,
but that number is 30,760.
All right. So, looks good. Upward
trending, dips are buys, and
that dip at 30,350
that may or may not be our support zone.
The deeper edges where I suspect we are
going to have a bounce, and that is
around 30,280.
In the meantime,
we're just treading water.
Inventory is still basically long in the
overnight. Lots of trend, lots of
momentum. Daily formations doing the
same thing, a little bit of negative
traction.
Let's go to the YM.
Very solid uptrend. Holding the
formations really well. The YM is
continuing to move upward. I hear people
say all the time, "Nobody looks at the
YM." Well, that might be true for
American traders, but as you know, for
foreign traders, because I've told you
many times, this is not the case. They
look here, especially
the not-so-sophisticated trader who
wants exposure to US markets.
They have lots of models that say,
"Listen, you just need to buy the Dow."
Okay? So, what are we staring down? We
just broke up over this line. The line
we're The Fibonacci we're drawing today
comes from Friday's 9:30 candle. So, the
market-on-open candle gives us our
upward pressure event.
We have an upward 20, an upward VWAP, an
upward 50,
a flat-ish 200, but sharp upward motion.
Everything looks very solid to the
upside. Dips are buys. So, where's that
line in the sand?
For this chart, because it's so strong,
my thought is that 51,100
or so,
maybe 50,180,
is the floor here in the formation. And
so,
if we lose that area, if we choose to
buy a dip there, and it slips down,
we'd need about 50 points of risk. All
right? So, [music] put that in your uh
risk parameters before you decide your
size
because if it does lose that, it could
chop around this zone all the way down
to 51,000, but you
51,070, but you don't really want to do
that. You want to look at this halfway
spot, see if it resolves. For me, I like
letting the chart go, seeing if it
fails, and then recapturing
my moving average. That makes it nice
and easy, and you know the wind is at
your back for upside pressure. In
general, we continue to move to the
north.
We've had very messy opens. Look at
this. This is Thursday's open, super
messy.
Friday's open,
not as messy, but certainly big wicks on
either side before breaking to the north
and moving forward. Notice how different
this looks from the ES chart. Very, very
different. Lots of motion, lots of
movement into US markets. We are clearly
seeing that. So, dips are buys, upward
formations.
52,000
50, excuse me,
51,400
51,530
and then 51,660.
That's our rotation for the day.
Inventory is long pre-market. They'll
probably unwind a little bit. I'm going
to look for the deeper dips to be
buying, right? If it comes into the
pivot at 50,900
950 or so,
I would consider that a very nice buying
opportunity, particularly because
there's so much demand there.
Let's go to Bitcoin.
So,
uh Bitcoin
not moving in market directions, I think
this probably makes the Bitcoiners a bit
nervous.
But,
they're likely holding the trend line.
And so, where is that? That's a test of
about 70,000. They are going to try and
buy it here.
But, with the steepness of momentum
and the 50 simple moving average above
along with the 20, it tells me that the
bounces are likely to be sell zones. So,
you can trade both sides sitting here.
Now, what would I do?
Well, I like to follow trend
and momentum. And both of those are down
currently. So, I'm going to look for the
bounces to give me selling
opportunities. So, what is price action
telling me
Price action's telling me
I've got a resistance line at 70
3,100
and then
73,400.
Right? The VWAP is not
I mean, that's hundreds points away.
>> [music]
>> So, that's 73,500
or so.
Right? And so, the bounces up there
could be sell zones. Could you trade it
to the upside? Yes, you definitely
could.
Is it forming a double bottom here?
It's hard to say with this momentum.
You could try it, but
if it breaks 72,675,
maybe give yourself
another
100 points to the downside. If it breaks
76 72,570,
this is probably not going to be
bullish, okay?
If there's just too much negative
pressure sitting here. All the bounces
are sell or sell zones on every single
chart, really.
Let's go to oil.
So, oil is bouncing. I thought it would
come into 85. It held $86.40.
That also happens to be
uh the pivot uh support pivot of prior
days. The actual pivot for today is
$87.70.
We are trending upwards in price.
The 20 is up but generally flat.
The 50 is up but generally flat, and
then the 200 is down to flat. There's a
lot of sideways pressure here, but dips
also appear to be buy zones. Could you
sell this formation here?
Yes, but you'd want for it to fail
and then bounce
to look above and then fail again. JJ
calls it the look above and fail, but it
would be the movement down and then the
look above that fails.
Okay, not a brand new high that fails.
Although, you could also trade that. It
just
might not give you as much traction.
Right?
So, what are the ledges?
And which
which area is most important to us
today? Well, in my mind,
let's let's hang on. Let's check this
Fibonacci. In my mind, it is
the 11:00 a.m. candle. A lot of very
interesting motion at 11:00 a.m.
A lot of interesting motion at 11:00
a.m. What we are seeing is that we are
caught
in the 10:00 a.m. candle from Thursday.
That's our wide zone
that we're caught in. Breaking out above
$91.30
or so could easily give us more upside
pressure.
I doubt it.
But, [music] my thought is
this buying motion it has been pretty
solid. So, dips going to come in and see
the buy. Where's that line that says,
"Hey,
if it dips lower than here, you got a
problem." And so, the closest line for
that would be
one of our first
pivot resistance lines, which is
$90.10.
If it dips below there, I I would be
careful. This is the place that I would
say, "Let it fade
and then bounce, look above, but not be
able to hold the 20, the VWAP, and the
200. That would be a sign that would
tell me it would come down into the edge
of value area low.
Okay?
And that number is $88.76.
Could it come in a little further? It
could.
But, so watch those levels. The pivot is
well below us at 87
70.
Let's take a look at gold.
All right.
Gold's also in a sideways pocket.
Right? This
typical volume by time is all yellow
here because we've moved to a new
contract.
And what we are seeing
is that in this new contract
the 11:00 a.m. candlestick is very
important. It's also peak from Friday.
It breaks down right there and just
collapses beautifully. Look at where it
bounces.
Right at the 200.
It's really incredible. I wonder
Let's see what that 200 looks like.
Yeah.
Right at the 200. This
exponential moving average is
very interesting. I think I'm going to
hide this for now.
Let's open this up
and hide that. I don't want too much
stuff going on here. We've already got a
zillion things going on. All right, so
what do we want to stare down?
We bounced off of the 200 simple moving
average. That number is
4520. It's also value area low.
I would expect it to try to hit value
area high. There are a few people that
are saying that
gold and the market should move in the
same direction.
You know, maybe so, maybe no. I I I
don't have a strong opinion on that. I
do believe that gold
easily continues to fade because
folks are selling it to pay bills.
And
if I am wrong,
we will extend the draft above $4628.
So, what do we expect this one to do?
Can we take a long from here? Well, we
could take a long from 4537.
So, ideally, we want a bottoming
formation that looks like this. A bounce
above
and then a pullback that holds.
Okay? So, this would be the look below
and fail.
Right?
And so, this look below and fail, we'd
want to see the same sort of structure
here. We'd want to see it look below,
make a higher low,
and then fail. But right now, we've got
the VWAP and the 20, momentum is
markedly down. Notice how momentum tells
us we've got a problem up here.
Here's the first high, here's the next
high, momentum still cresting higher.
And then for the next high, momentum is
all the way down here. So, it's telling
us, "Listen, trend is your friend."
So, our pullbacks into trend, if they
still hold, then this line is
not important.
It becomes important down here. So, for
me, at the break of this line, we've got
some problems. Yes, it comes negative,
so
could we chop around between all the
moving averages that we're staring down
and uh
just
sit around here in price? Yes, but I
expect this kind of structure, right?
So, we want to look for the pullback
down into the higher lows,
and then the rise to the north.
Otherwise, this is a short right here at
4540.
Let's finally take a look at spy.
Spy, trending up really well.
Momentum,
it's got some nasty drifts on it, but
the trend is telling us that our dips
are buys.
And this line,
I think it still holds.
Let's
Let's remove it, and let's put
Let's put this one in.
So, what are we staring down? Breakout,
brand new highs, 753,
moving all the way up
into 760.
That's where the call wall is today at
760, so I would not be surprised to see
that. Would not be surprised at all.
Very big market on close candlestick
structurally speaking on Friday.
Let's
draw that out.
I think I'm looking at that correctly.
Yes, indeed.
It had pretty nice bottom.
Fell in the after market
and then
immediately began to bounce.
This
very interesting. Just a savage
gap up into the 4:00 a.m.
And, you know, we're off to the races.
What's the line in the sand today?
Intraday, if you are buying spy, it's
got to hold 757.
So, if it comes in there and you go,
"Okay, I'm buying a long." I'm going to
take it long. I'll buy an option,
whatever you want to do.
If it starts moving into this area,
get out and try again.
The clean area to me seems to be where
the 50 is,
where the pivot is,
where
uh
another gamma wall is, and that is all
around 756
or so. I like that area for a buy zone.
If it continues to break to the north,
it should easily head to 760.
The market continues to trend into the
updraft.
All right? So,
it's a buy zone.
Just be careful at the open and don't
get washed out in these nasty opens.
Okay?
If we lose 757,
there's a general gap fill event at 756,
and then lots of demand here until 7:54.
Okay, everybody. Take care. I'll see you
on the streams.
Remember,
please hit like and subscribe for me.
Thank you so much.
Okay.
Let's go.